We know humans learn from their past experiences and machines follow instructions given by humans. But what if humans can train the machines to learn from their past data and do what humans can do at much faster? Well, that's called machinery, but it's a lot more than just learning. It's also about understanding and reasoning. So today we will learn about the basics of machine learning. So that's Paul's, he loves listening to new songs. He either likes them or dislikes them. Well, decides this on the basis of the song's tempo, Johnnie, intensity, and a gender of voice. For simplicity, let's assume tempo and intensity for now. So here, tempo is on the x-axis, ranging from the laks to fast. Whereas intensity is on the y-axis, ranging from light to soaring. So let's see that Paul likes the song with fast tempo and soaring intensity. Why should this like the song with relaxed tempo and light intensity? So now, no Paul's choices. Let's see, well, this is your new song. Let's name it, iPhone 8. Sound 8 has fast tempo and a soaring intensity. So it lies somewhere here. Looking at the data, time to guess where the Paul's like the song or not correct. Suppose likes the song. Looking at both fast choices, we were able to classify the unknown song very easily. Right? Let's see, now Paul listens to a new song. Let's label it as from peak to song B lies somewhere here with medium tempo and medium intensity. Now this is last, not fast, neither light nor soaring. Now can you guess where the Paul likes it or not? Not able to guess where the Paul's like it or dislike it. Are the choices until you're correct. We could easily classify song 8, but when the choice became complicated, as in the case of song B, yes. And that's where machine learning comes in. Let's see how in the same example for song B, if it draw a circle around song B, we see that there are four words for like, whereas one word for dislike. If we go for the majority words, we can say that Paul is definitely like the song. That's all. This is a basic machine learning algorithm also. It's called Game Your Snabers. So this is just a small example, involved from many machine learning algorithms. Quite easy, right? Believe me, it is. But what happens when the choices become complicated, as in the case of song B? That's when machine learning comes in. It learns the data, there's the prediction model. And when the new data point comes in, it can easily be stretched for it. More the data, better than model, higher will be the accuracy. There are many ways in which the machine learns. It could be either sub-wise learning and sub-wise learning or reinforcement learning. Let's first quickly understand, suppose your friend gives you one million coins, three different currencies. Say one to be one zero and one their hum. Each coin has different weights. For example, a coin will want to be weight three grams. One zero, weight seven grams. And one data on weight programs. Your model will predict if the currency of the coin. Here, your weight becomes the feature of coins. While currency becomes for labels, when you see this data to the machine learning model, it learns. Which feature is associated with which labels? For example, it will learn that if a coin is of three grams, it will be a one to be coin. Let's give a new coin to the machine. On the basis of the weight of the new coin, your model will predict the currency. Hence, sub-wise learning uses the labels data to train the model. Here, the machine knew the features of the object and also the labels as we see it through both features. On this code, let's move to unsupervised learning and see the difference. Suppose you have cricket data set of various players with their respective scores and wicked second. When you see this data set to the machine, the machine identifies the pattern of player performance. So it drops this data with the respective records and the x-axis. While runs on the y-axis, while you do a data, you will clearly see that the red two clusters, the one cluster are the players who scored high runs and took less wicked. While the other cluster is of the players who scored less runs but took limited. So you will be interpret these two clusters as pattern and builders. We have got points to note here is that there is no label of pattern and boilers. Hence, the learning with unlabeled data is unsupervised learning. So we saw super wise learning where the data was labeled and the unsupervised learning with the data was and able. And then there is the reinforcement learning which is a reward based learning. All we can say that it works in the principle of feedback. Here, if we provide the system with an image of a talk and ask it to identify it. The system identifies it as a cat. So you can emit it a feedback to the machine, saying that it's a dog's image. The machine who learns from the feedback and finally, if it comes across any other image of a dog, it will be able to classify it correctly. That is the reinforcement learning. When the life machine learning model, let's see a sub chart. In path of step into a machine learning model, which then gives the output according to the algorithm applied. If it's right, we take the output as a final result. Else, we provide feedback to the team model and ask it to predict and let's learn. I hope you've understood super wise and unsupervised learning. So let's have a quick quick. You have to determine whether the given scenarios, users, supervised or unsupervised learning. Simple right. So now you want Facebook, click it, and I'll do a friend in a picture from an album of that for a graph. So now you too. Netflix recommends new movies based on someone's past movie choices. So now you'll treat analyzing bank data for suspicious transactions and flagging the broad transactions. Think wisely and comment below your answers. Moving on. Don't you sometimes wonder how is machine learning possible in today's era? Well, that's because today we have human with data available. Everybody's online either making a transaction or just surfing the internet. And that's generating a huge amount of data every minute. And that data my friend is the key to analysis. Also the memory handling capabilities of computers have been largely increased, which helps them to process such a huge amount of data at hand without any delay. And yes, computers now have great computational powers. So there are broader applications of machine learning out there. To name a few, machine learning is used in healthcare where diagnostics are predicted for doctor's review. The sentiment analysis that the tech giants are doing on social media is another interesting application of machine learning for detection in the finance sector and also to predict customer churn in the e-commerce sector. While booking the gap, you must have encountered search pricing often where it says the real feature has been updated. Continue booking. Yes, please. I'm going late for office. Well, that's an interesting machine learning model which is used by global taxi giant Uber and others where they have differential pricing in real time based on demand. The number of cars available, bad, server, rush are etc. So we use the search pricing model to ensure that those who need a gap can get one. Also, it uses predictive modeling to predict where the demand will be high. With a goal that drivers can take care of demand and search pricing can be minimized. Great. Hey Siri, can you remind me to book a tab at 6pm today? Ok, I'll remind you. Thanks. No problem. Comment below some interesting everyday examples around the queue where machines are learning and doing amazing jobs. So that's all for machine learning basics through my site. Keep watching this space for more interesting videos. Until then, happy learning. Bye.